# Trait-Mediated Variation in Seedling Performance in Costa Rican Successional Forests: Comparing Above-Ground, Below-Ground and Allocation-Based Traits.

The interspecific relationship between functional traits and tree seedling performance can be in-consistent, potentially due to site-to-site or microsite variation in environmental conditions. Stud-ies of seedling traits and performance often focus on above-ground traits, despite the importance of below-ground resource acquisition and biomass allocation to above versus below-ground func-tions. Here we investigate how varying environmental conditions across sites induce intraspecific variation in organ-level (above-ground, below-ground) and biomass allocation traits, affecting interspecific relationships between these traits and seedling performance. We analyzed trait ex-pression for 12 organ-level and three allocation traits and their relationships with height growth (1716 seedlings) and mortality (15,862 seedlings) for 26 tree species across three sites along a for-est successional gradient in Costa Rica. We found significant intraspecific differences across sites in all allocation traits, but only in three of seven above-ground and three of five below-ground or-gan-level traits. Allocation traits were better predictors of seedling performance than organ-level traits. Relationships between allocation traits and both growth and mortality varied among all sites, but for organ-level traits, only relationships with growth varied among sites. These results underscore that biomass allocation plays a key role in the earliest life stages of trees and that site-specific conditions can influence how functional traits mediate seedling establishment during succession. 

